UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE
Trade Division
Palais des Nations, CH1211 Genève 10, Switzerland
Tel. +41 22 917 30 10, Fax +41 22 917 0037
E-mail: locode@unece.org

UN/LOCODE (CODE FOR TRADE AND TRANSPORT LOCATIONS)
Issue 2014-1
(Released on 20 Juin 2014)

Note to the users of UN/LOCODE
1.

The UNECE secretariat has the pleasure to introduce herewith UN/LOCODE 2014-1.

2.
UN/LOCODE is available on the Internet World Wide Web, on a site dedicated exclusively to the
UN/LOCODE Manual with its code lists:
http://www.unece.org/cefact/locode
3.
The full text of UNECE Recommendation No 16 on “Codes for Trade and Transport Locations”
(formerly “Codes for Ports and Other Locations”), with the text part of the Manual, as revised in 1998, is
available at the site dedicated to the UNECE trade facilitation activity in general:
http://www.unece.org/trade/untdid/download/99trd227.pdf

CHANGES IN UN/LOCODE 2014-1
4.
Subdivisions in UN/LOCODE 2014-1 have been updated to be consistent with the version of ISO
3166-2 (15/12/2011). In 2001 a number of changes were made in the presentation of UN/LOCODE, some of
which will call for changes in Recommendation 16 and the UN/LOCODE Manual. Pending a forthcoming
revision of these documents, the following changes that were implemented in UN/LOCODE 2001-1 and later
issues are maintained in UN/LOCODE 2014-1:

Double columns
5.
Since the 1998 revision of Recommendation 16, the code list is presented in two versions, one which
includes diacritic marks in place names and one from which these marks have been removed. The use of
diacritic signs is explained in paragraphs 27 to 32. It should be noted that the alphabetic sorting order varies
between countries whose character sets include diacritics. These are therefore ignored in the sorting within the
“Name” column.

Geographical coordinates
6.
A column for geographical coordinates (latitude/longitude) was introduced in UN/LOCODE 2002-1.
Data is being added in this column as it becomes available to the Secretariat. In order to avoid unnecessary use
of non-standard characters and space, the following standard presentation is used:
ddmmN dddmmW,

ddmmS dddmmE,

etc.,

where the two last digits refer to minutes and the two or three first digits indicate the degrees.
Classifiers in the Change column
7.
The classifiers in the Change column reflect practice elsewhere in the UN/EDIFACT environment.
This means that in UN/LOCODE, the following classifiers are used:

Change Description
X
#
¦
+
=
!

Marked for deletion in the next issue
Change in the location name
Other change in the entry
Entry added to the current issue
Reference entry
Retained for certain entries in the USA code list (“controlled duplications”)

Alignment of function classifiers
8.
In order to align the use of function classifiers in Recommendations 16 and 19, it had been agreed that
the classifier “8” in Recommendation 16 would be reserved for inland waterway and lake ports, whereas the
letter “B” would represent border crossings. However, as only 118 such inland waterway and lake ports had
been notified to the secretariat in 2002, the UN/LOCODE Expert Group agreed to discontinue this use of
classifier “8” and instead to use classifier “1” for all ports serving any kind of waterborne transport. (This
agreement will be reflected in a revised Recommendation 16.)
9.
Recommendation 16 includes a definition of “Inland Clearance Depot – ICD” (with synonyms “Dry
Port”, “Inland Clearance Terminal”, etc) and the classifier “6” is reserved in the Recommendation for this type
of function. Following a request from one country the UN/LOCODE Expert Group agreed to activate classifier
“6” to ICDs as from UN/LOCODE 2002-2.
10.
There is also a provision in Recommendation 16 for the function “fixed transport functions (e.g. oil
platform)”; the classifier “7” is reserved for this function. Noting that the description “oil pipeline terminal”
would be more relevant, and could be extended to cover also electric power lines and ropeway terminals, the
Expert Group agreed that the classifier “7” should be activated as from UN/LOCODE 2002-2.
Notes in the “Remarks” column
11.
Each change affecting a location entry in UN/LOCODE is indicated in the “Change” column, using the
indicators specified in paragraph 7 above; the reasons for the change are explained in the “Remarks” column.
Remarks affecting the current issue of UN/LOCODE may be deleted from later issues. To indicate such
temporary changes the following “tags” are used as an aid:

Tag

Description

@Coo
@Fun

Change affecting or adding Coordinates (change indicator ‘¦’)
Change affecting the Function (change indicator ‘¦’)

@Sta
@Sub
@Nam
@Spe

Change of status (change indicator ‘¦’)
Addition or change of subdivision code (change indicator ‘¦’)
Change in the location name (change indicator ‘#’)
Correction of spelling of name (change indicator ‘#’)

There may be more than one reason for the change. Remarks of permanent nature will not be preceded by a
tag.
Problems of off-shore installations and terminals
12.
At the fifth meeting of the UN/LOCODE Expert Group it was reported that requests had been received
for allocation of code entries for oil platforms and similar installations located in coastal or international
waters. In many cases national sovereignty over such installations could not be determined.
13.
Pending a more profound study of the problem it was agreed to use the provision in clause 3.1.4 in the
UN/LOCODE Manual, which refers to installations in international waters or international co-operation zones,
for which the country code element “XZ” is available. Agreeing that most of these cases reflected bona fide
needs that should be honoured, the Expert Group agreed to use the code “XZ” to identify offshore installations.
14.
Since that decision was taken an increasing number of requests have been received for entries of this
kind. Many of them do not refer to named facilities, but give a rather vague description, supported by
coordinates. This creates a difficulty for the Secretariat to create a meaningful “name” for the entry – often the
description uses terms as “off” a place or a geographical feature. Recommendation 16 defines a location as a
“named geographical place” and the majority of requests do not qualify for inclusion in UN/LOCODE under
that criterion.
15.
A similar problem exists in regard to land-based terminals which often do not refer to a geographical
location but are named after a company, person or activity.
16.
Under the circumstances, the Secretariat is unable to honour a certain number of requests, pending a
further study of the problem and consideration within the UN/LOCODE Expert Group. All requests concerned
will, however, be registered and temporary solutions sought in consultation with the parties concerned.
UN/LOCODE in figures
17.
UN/LOCODE 2014-1 main code list has now 97 114 entries and the database contains a total of over
100 000 records. The updating exercise for UN/LOCODE 2014-1 included change requests which caused
action as specified in the tables below:
Count of Requests
Final Status
Approved
Postponed
Rejected
Withdrawn (Duplications or already processed)
Grand Total

Total
4740
21
96
125
4982

UN/LOCODE 2014-1 includes 97 114 entries. New entries and other changes are specified in the table below
Change
+
¦
#
X

Additions to the current issue
Other changes
Spelling and other changes in location names
Entries marked for deletion in the next issue

Total
2103
2173
273
191

Total number of
changes

4740

18.
The Universal Postal Union has adopted the UN/LOCODE as a basis for location codes used for
“International Mail Processing Centres” (IMPC), at present nearly 1 400 such entries exist. The Statistical
Office of the European Union (EUROSTAT) is using the UN/LOCODE for certain statistical reporting related
to nearly 1600 port functions. In both cases, the UPU and EUROSTAT databases are incorporated in the
UN/LOCODE database. In the UPU case code extensions are used, as envisaged in paragraph 4.1 of the
UN/LOCODE Manual, Part 1. It is recalled that UN/LOCODE database also includes similar databases from
IATA (11 000 locations), ECLAC (450 records) and Lloyds Register (18 000 records).
USA country revision
19.
As the 17 575 possible permutations of 3-character codes has been almost exhausted for USA the
secretariat as from the 2006-2 issue of UN/LOCODE introduces entries where the third position of 3-letter
codes is represented by a numerical digit 2 to 9. This option provided for in the UN/LOCODE Manual (section
3.2.1).
20.
There still remain cases in the US code list where the 3-letter part of code duplicates IATA airport
identifiers. These mainly refer to military installations and minor facilities which are of little relevance for
UN/LOCODE users. The entries concerned have been marked with an exclamation mark (‘!’). In application
of paragraph 3.1.4 of the UN/LOCODE Manual, these duplications should not cause any problems for users.
Application of inclusion criteria
21.
As a result of the continuous review of inclusion criteria, 95 066code entries now have one of the
“approved” status indicators. The status classifier “RQ” (Request under consideration) is used only in cases
where it has not yet been possible to verify the existence of a location. However, some 21 106 entries with
“RQ” status remain to be examined with a view to upgrading. The status indicator “QQ”, which means that the
entry remains from the original 1980 input to UN/LOCODE still applies in more than 900 cases which are
being reviewed and verified.
Handling of IATA codes
22.
The fact that some IATA 3-letter codes differ from the 3-letter part of the existing codes for the same
places in UN/LOCODE has caused problems for users. In order to resolve this problem, the UN/LOCODE
Expert Group agreed to introduce a separate column, to be used only in cases where the IATA code deviates
from UN/LOCODE. In all other cases, the presence of an airport function code would mean that the code
elements are identical.
Automated request procedure
23.
Para 6.2.1 of the UN/LOCODE Manual stipulates that requests for inclusion of additional locations
should preferably be transmitted by electronic medium. In connection with the publication of UN/LOCODE
2001-1, an electronic form for submitting requests was introduced on the UN/LOCODE website, enabling
requesters to put forward any requests for new code entries directly by entering the data specified on the form.
24.
The creation of a new data base offered the opportunity to introduce an automated entry request system
which was being put into use with the 2006-1 issue of UN/LOCODE. Its functions are described in a Users
Guide and can be summarized as follows:
25.
The UN/LOCODE Data Maintenance Request system invites requesters to register on-line via a website accessible from the main UN/LOCODE menu. Registered users will be identified by a username and will
be able to submit requests, either one-by-one via a web-form. Data will be automatically checked against
present entries in UN/LOCODE, place name and code duplications will be detected and valid requests will be
immediately included in a temporary file, pending the next issue of the code.

26.
Requesters may receive a response message, confirming the receipt of the data submitted and issuing a
Request Reference Number for any subsequent communication with the secretariat. The response message will
state whether the request has been Accepted, in which case it will be included in the next UN/LOCODE issue,
or Noted, which means that further processing is needed but allowing the requester to use his proposed code in
the meantime. Rejected means that either the name already figures in UN/LOCODE, or that the proposed code
already is allocated; reasons for the rejection will be given. Other functions will enable users to propose
certain changes in existing entries, and to obtain a historic record of previous requests.
Use of diacritic signs in UN/LOCODE
27.
Place names in UN/LOCODE are given in their national language versions as expressed in the Roman
alphabet using the 26 characters of the character set adopted for international trade data interchange, with
diacritic signs, when practicable (cf. Paragraph 3.2.2 of the UN/LOCODE Manual). International ISO Standard
character sets are laid down in ISO 8859-1 (1987) and ISO10646-1 (1993). (The standard United States
character set (437), which conforms to these ISO standards, is also widely used in trade data interchange).
28.
Several countries use national alphabets based on the 26 character set referred to above, but with the
addition of diacritical signs which may affect the pronunciation of the names concerned, their place in the
alphabetical order and sometimes their meaning. With the increasing use of UN/LOCODE also in national and
regional trade, the absence of diacritic signs caused serious disadvantages and problems for users.
29.
For these reasons it was agreed in 1995 to introduce in the data base such characters which consist of a
basic letter of the 26 character set but with an added diacritic sign or accent (examples are â, å, ä, é, è, ö, ô, ø,
ü), and to produce print-out on paper and Web pages showing these characters. (The Danish and Norwegian
character “æ” had to be replaced by a single “a”).
30.
To aid users with such problems, as from the 2001 version of UN/LOCODE, two columns are
provided for place names, one reflecting national name versions, with diacritic signs, and one in which
diacritic signs have been removed from the names. Countries for which diacritic signs are used in
UN/LOCODE are: AT, BO, BR, CH, CL, CR, DE, DK, FI, FO, FR, HU, IS, KR, MX, NO, PA, PE, PT, SE, SJ,
TR and VN. In this ”diacritics” column it was also possible to include accented letters.
31.
The following list shows those roman characters with accents and diacritic marks which are used in
location names in UN/LOCODE. If they cannot be read or produced with available equipment, they should be
substituted as set out in the second column of the list.
32.
If characters are irrelevant or not recognizable, examples of actual names are given in Annex 1, which
may help users to identify and substitute basic Roman characters in such names.

DIACRITIC

SUBSTITUTE

À, Á, Â, Ã, Ä, Å, Æ

A

Ç
È, É, Ê, Ë

C
E

Ì, Í, Î, Ï

I

DIACRITIC

SUBSTITUTE

Ñ

N

Ò, Ó, Ô, Õ, Ö, Ø

O

Ù, Ú, Û, Ü

U

Ý

Y

à, á, â, ã, ä, å, æ

a

ç

c

è, é, ê, ë

e

ì, í, î, ï

i

ñ

n

ò, ó, ô, õ, ö, ø

o

ù, ú, û, ü

u

ý, ÿ

y

ANNEX 1.
If characters produced are irrelevant or not recognisable, the following examples of actual names may enable
users to identify and substitute basic Roman characters in such names:

FR MAC

Mâcon: Substitute second character with “a”

SE VAJ

Väja: Substitute second character with “a”

SE ALM

Älmhult: Substitute first character with “A”

SE AMA

Åmål: Substitute first character “A” and third character with “a”

DK AGP

Agerbæk: Substitute sixth character with “a”

FR BET

Béthune: Substitute second character with “e”

FR CMP

Compiègne: Substitute sixth character with “e”

CL KNA

Viña del Mar: Substitute third character with “n”

DK ARK

Ærøskøbing: Substitute first character with “A” Substitute third and sixth characters with “o”

DE OKB

Østbirk: Substitute first character with “O”

SE GOT

Göteborg: Substitute second character with “o”

SE ORB

Örebro: Substitute first character with “O”

DE LBC

Lübeck: Substitute second character with “u”

DE UER

Ürzig: Substitute first character with “U”

